### `rtc_client_connected`

This option allows applications to show when a user enters the RTC session. When used in combination with [`rtc_client_disconnected`](#rtc_client_disconnected), a user interface of connected users can be kept up to date.

Only one `rtc_client_connected` event will be fired per client connection. Connecting to a session with multiple existing clients will fire separate `rtc_client_connected` events for each existing client.

**Type:** `Function`

**Required:** no

#### Input fields for `rtc_client_connected`

To help with generating a user interface for connected users, an object for user details is provided with the following fields:

- [User ID (`userId`)](#userid)
- [User Details (`userDetails`)](#userdetails)
- [Client ID (`clientId`)](#clientid)
- [Caret Number (`caretNumber`)](#caretnumber)
- [Client information (`clientInfo`)](#clientinformation)

##### User ID

| Field | Type |
|-------|:----:|
| `userId` | `string` |
{: style="width: auto;"}

This is the user's unique ID (the `sub` field from their [JWT](({{site.baseurl}}/rtc/jwt-authentication/)), which is also used for [`rtc_user_details_provider`](#rtc_user_details_provider)). Multiple connection events will be received with the same user ID if a user opens multiple sessions (for example on desktop and mobile).

##### User Details

| Field | Type |
|-------|:----:|
| `userDetails` | `object` |
{: style="width: auto;"}

This is a copy of the object returned by [`rtc_user_details_provider`](#rtc_user_details_provider). RTC only uses the `fullName` field, but the entire object will be cloned and passed to `rtc_client_connected`.

If a user details provider is not configured, this will be an empty object.

##### Client ID

| Field | Type |
|-------|:----:|
| `clientId` | `string` |
{: style="width: auto;"}

This is a unique identifier, generated by the RTC protocol, that can be used to differentiate between the same user connecting multiple times.

##### Caret Number

| Field | Type |
|-------|:----:|
| `caretNumber` | `integer` |
{: style="width: auto;"}

This will be a number between 1 and 8, corresponding to one of [the 8 colors defined in TinyMCE CSS](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce/blob/master/modules/oxide/src/less/theme/content/rtc/rtc.less#L1-L8). TinyMCE supports 8 distinct caret colors. If more than 8 clients connect to a session, the numbers will be reused.

A custom skin is required to change these colors, and no more than 8 are supported in this release. For information on creating a custom skin, see: [Customizing the Editor UI]({{site.baseurl}}/general-configuration-guide/customize-ui/).

##### Client information

| Field | Type |
|-------|:----:|
| `clientInfo` | `object` |
{: style="width: auto;"}

This is a copy of the [`rtc_client_info`](#rtc_client_info) data from the remote user's editor configuration.

If none was configured, this will be an empty object.

> **Caution**: {{site.productname}} cannot guarantee the accuracy of data which comes from a remote object. {{site.companyname}} recommends only using the client information data for status flags. To obtain authentic client information, use the [`rtc_user_details_provider`](#rtc_user_details_provider) data returned through the `userDetails` field.

{% include rtc/rtc-client-connect-disconnect-example.md %}